---
layout: post
title: Perseverence and persistance 
subtitle: Petra
quote: "\"I'm Petra and with Wendy and dog Gizmo I have been living with in Almkerk since February 2016. I have spent my childhood at a campsite in Zeeland and I think that it was there that my wish to work in tourism/recreation has its roots. Despite my diplomas, I have had various administrative positions in different areas for the first fifteen years. I have rediscovered my passion for tourism and recreation when I started working at a tourist office in Willemstad. Providing people with an amazing experience, that's what I am made for. My other passion is drumming and I play in a band. I also love walking. I already used to do that in my spare time, but since August 2015 I organize network walks for jobseekers as well.\""
background: images/posts/2017-07-04-Petra.jpg
---

## Could you tell us something about yourself?

I'm Petra van Steen and with Wendy and dog Gizmo I have been living with in Almkerk since February 2016. I have spent my childhood at a campsite in Zeeland (province in the Netherlands) and I think that it was there that my wish to work in tourism/recreation has its roots. Despite my diplomas, I have had various administrative positions in different areas for the first fifteen years. I have rediscovered my passion for tourism and recreation when I started working at a tourist office in Willemstad. Providing people with an amazing experience, that's what I am made for: I'm someone who has ideas and is enterprising. For example, in my last function, I developed a step-trip, and I organized a few regional events: Open Garden Day Moerdijk and a “valuation afternoon”. Both have attracted hundreds of visitors.

My other passion is drumming and I play in a band, XammeRamme. Making music with a nice group of people in places you normally do not come just like that: I love it. For the band, I also organized a promotional tour twice, and with two band mates I organize the performances.

I also love walking. I already used to do that in my spare time, but since August 2015 I organize network walks for jobseekers. Nowadays, there are also people I know personally and other interested people who join. 

I enjoy going to the movie and theatre and, if possible, visit vintage markets.

Furthermore, I volunteer for various organizations and I write articles for the website Pretwerk.nl, a website with the latest news for entrepreneurs in tourism, recreation and sport. This way I keep my knowledge up to date and I stay in touch with the industry.

## Could you tell us something about how you have found this job?

Certainly, I work as a museum shop/ticket office employee on a very special location: [Slot Loevestein](https://www.slotloevestein.nl) (Castle Loevestein, in English), a castle of over 650 years old.
My work consists of various tasks: selling entrance tickets and store items (such as books, toys and souvenirs) providing information to visitors, supplying and maintaining the entire stock, answering phone calls, keeping the store neat and tidy, checking in and out guests of the Suite & Breakfast and assisting catering staff of “Taveerne” (the restaurant).

## Did you follow official education for this job or did they hire you because they had faith in your qualities?

I followed a tourism education "employee inbound, outbound and domestic tourism" in 1990 and obtained all the qualifications and certificates needed. This is a broad-based education that enables you, for example, to work at a travel agency, a tour operator, or Tourist Office, etc. Since last summer I have been volunteering at Castle Loevestein, so the management team knew me and they were aware of the fact that I was already looking for work in tourism / recreation for a couple of years.

## Could you tell us something about how you have found this job?

Because I had already been volunteering at Slot Loevestein last year, I received their online newsletters. I also monitored their website, so I knew last November that this job became available. Initially, the work would be voluntary, as two permanent employees were retiring this year and they would not be replaced by payed employees. I found that difficult at first, because my aim still was a paid job. However, after three years looking, I was still empty-handed. The benefits of accepting the voluntary positions however, were the decisive factor. For instance: the function largely matched to my last job, my working experience would be recent again instead of three years old, I could expand my network with new colleagues and the location was only a 15-minute commute from my house. On top of that, it's a beautiful and unique location to work: Slot Loevestein is a famous castle in the Netherlands and that is definitely a plus. Shortly after I started as a volunteer, a permanent employee became ill. This was the reason for the management team to approach me for a paid job as a temporary replacement. Meanwhile, my contract has been extended until the end of August.

## When did you have your largest dip during your searching process?

I cannot really define one single moment, there have been several dips. For example, when you have had a very nice interview, you feel this special energy and still you are told that they chose another candidate over you. What I found confronting too, was that I was all on my own. In my last job, I worked for an association, at which I knew quite some members. When I lost my job, and became jobseeker, I've never heard anything from these members. In fact, there were people amongst them who were owners of a company or had managing jobs. People with connections. This really disappointed me and I found it hard to understand. But I quickly made my own plans, started undertaking all sorts of things and made discoveries by myself.

## What, according to you, does not work at all when you want to find a position (abroad or in general)?

Oh, there are many things that don’t work! I’ll name a few:

-   *Waiting until that job offers itself.*
    You will have to motivate yourself every time to go for that job. Do not wait for the unemployment agency and / or the staffing agency to search for you: it's your own process and you'll have to do it yourself. Of course, you will have off-days, but do not dwell in them. And take your relaxation. I kept the evenings and the weekends free of job searching to unwind, you really need this because you get up with this tremendous task and go to bed with it. 

-   *To become negative / cynical and to express it on social media or while networking.*
    Negative comments on social media can be read by a potential employer. They are not searching for a curmudgeon, but look for an enthusiastic, positive-minded employee. Negative energy takes energy from others, and as a result people are less likely to help you. Of course, you may have your off days, but don’t let it take too long, otherwise you will stay in it and the search will be only harder. I can remember this network meeting in which most of the participants only complained about the employment agency and that it was all that difficult: I have never been there again.

-   *Think you know everything about finding a job.*
    It took some time before it sank in: things do not work the way as they did before when it comes to finding work. I really immersed myself in the modern job searching world. I joined various networking groups for jobseekers such as Flow Netwerkgroep, De Broekriem, Sterck in Werck. They regularly organize free useful workshops and meetings, which offered very valuable information. In addition, it expands your network, as this tends to get smaller when you lose your job. And you do not only feel lonely in your search because you all have that common factor: finding work. Also, the book of Aaltje Vincent and Jacco Valkenburg "Solliciteren via LinkedIn" was a revelation to me. Thanks to this book I started discovering LinkedIn, I changed my profile, I became a member of all kinds of groups, in which I discovered a lot of useful information. The result of familiarising myself with LinkedIn was, among other things, that I even gave two times a workshop about this platform and also supported people writing their profiles. In addition, I had job interviews via LinkedIn, and I was found by the owner of a website that I regularly write articles for now. Also, I'd never heard of webinars. Meanwhile I have followed several. 

-   *Thinking that volunteer work should actually be paid and therefore not do it.*
    After spending 1 month at home, I started doing volunteer work. For me, it was important to provide me with a rhythm, to feel useful, to get to know new people and organizations, and to contribute. I wanted my volunteering work to be related to tourism and recreation. Employers appreciate seeing that you have continued to work in that particular sector, even if it is voluntary. In addition, you avoid gaps in your CV. In the past years, I have been a volunteer for a care centre where I arranged senior outings for Nature Monuments, for St. Wildlife at Beekse Bergen Safari Park, and still for St. Emmaus Living and Working and as editor for [pretwerk.nl](http://www.pretwerk.nl), a website providing latest news for entrepreneurs in the area of ​​tourism, recreation and sports.

## What wisdom have you gathered and would you like to share with others?

I think I have answered to most of this in the previous question. I now know very well how the labour market is collapsing and what job searching involves. Should I end up in the same situation next time, I now know what to expect and what to do. I'm definitely got out of my comfort zone several times, I've taken things that I would not normally do. It's really trial and error, but you get wiser with every step.
Do I have one solution? No. One person finds work by writing an application letters, the other through networking or like me, through volunteering. Multiple ways lead to Rome: this makes the search more difficult, but it is not impossible. I have always said that to myself: keep on believing that one day you'll find a job.

> Photo: Marcel Köppen. Source: [museumkaart.nl](https://www.museumkaart.nl/museum/Slot+Loevestein.aspx)
