---
layout: post
title: Jobs in her field are extremely scarce
subtitle: Jolien
quote: "\"I'm 27 (almost 28, yikes!) and I have been living in London since 2010. I moved here from Holland to do an MA in English literature then ended up going to film school and making my home here. I am a bit of a video game nerd and I love cinema and TV so I spend a lot of time indoors consuming media of some kind. Other than that nothing beats London for theatre, shopping, wandering around, and going out for a drink at the pub with some friends!
\""
background: images/posts/2016-12-21-Jolien.png
---

## Could you tell us something about your current work?

I am currently working as Head of Development for an independent film production company in East London. We make low-budget films and my job is to help pick the projects (screenplays) we want to film and to work together with the writers to improve their scripts and get them ready for production.

### Why are you happy with this job?

I couldn't be happier with my job. It's a small company so I get to work across a lot of different tasks which keeps my job interesting and diverse. I also love working with scripts and story. It's fun to assess the potential of a script when it first comes in and then to see how a story can be improved. The difference a strong script can make to a film is huge and I'm a big advocate for not filming before the script is ready!

### Did you follow official education for this job or did they hire you because they had faith in your qualities?

Yes and no. I did a BA in Liberal Arts followed by an MA in English literature neither of which were super relevant to my job. But then I also did a diploma in practical filmmaking which is definitely relevant. I was originally hired as an office/production assistant and was lucky enough to find a niche within the company. Script reading was one of my stronger skills and interests and as no one had really taken on that script development role within the company so there was an opportunity for me to step in. With the support of my company I enrolled into a part-time diploma course in Script Development at the NFTS (which is one of the best film schools in England) and that set me up for my current position as Head of Development.

## Could you tell us something about how you have found this job?

After I completed my practical filmmaking diploma course I managed to get a few commissions as a writer and I was doing (unpaid) internships at the same time with different film production companies in London. I was lucky enough to have parents who could support me during this time but I have noticed that unpaid internships seem to be part and parcel of trying to find a job in a highly-competitive creative industry which is obviously not a fair situation. But the companies I worked at were generally quite small and offered genuine learning opportunities.

These internships rarely turn into jobs and usually companies will have a constant rotation of interns. The ones I did  were really helpful in terms of gaining more experience, names to put on my CV, and in terms of making new industry connections. I found it important that I learned something from the internship so it wasn't just me genuinely working for free. I turned down one internship with a big production company because the internship amounted to doing actual skilled work for free and I just couldn't see the benefit of that even if the name would look good on my CV. I thought that was pretty exploitative as they had produced 7 HUGE blockbusters and were only paying their interns £40 a week just to read novels for them... (Reading novels for production companies is a skill because you are asked to read and assess the potential of the work for film adaptation - other companies were paying me for this skill so to have a constant supply of interns doing this for free when a company is worth billions is just infuriating to me.)

> I also did some freelance work as a film producer and of course I was working nearly fulltime at a pub to get by which was great because the hours were flexible and it wasn't intellectually demanding which allowed me to stay mentally focused on my job search.

It's tricky to get your foot in the door because there is so much competition. I applied for loads of jobs, met a lot of people, and eventually I was lucky enough to get hired in an entry-level role. At the time I didn't think I would still be with this company now but I was even more lucky because I ended up in a team that valued my contributions and gave me room to grow within my role. I think a lot of companies, especially in the film industry, can be a bit hierarchical whereas my boss was always very focused on making sure everyone felt valued and included.

## When did you have your largest dip during your searching process?

After I'd spent about a year working at the pub I did loose morale a little bit. The pub was getting tedious and I was starting to reach a point where I needed to consider the possibility that maybe I wouldn't manage to get my foot in the door and that I needed to become self-sufficient (which I wasn't yet at the time as the pub was paying way less than London living wage..) What helped for me was that there really wasn't any other option. If you want to work in film then that's just what you're going to do and you'll keep trying until happens because you don't really see your life going any other way. Or at least that was my experience. I was raised to be very ambitious and career-oriented so that might have also had something to do with but I was definitely not going to give up on the film dream. (And of course I was privileged enough to have parents who were able and willing to support me in this pursuit - otherwise it would have been a lot more difficult).

## What, according to you, does not work at all when you want to find a position (abroad or in general)?

One thing I'm sceptical of is online job applications. In general I think you need to have a way in that is a bit more personal than a general application. We get tons of general enquiries and unfortunately they all end up being deleted. I think if you apply online your CV is one of 100s and that makes it so hard to stand out. Whereas if you have an in somehow, through someone you know who knows someone at the company or something like that, that gives you a big advantage. Even with the part time jobs I did (waitress, sales associate, barmaid), I ALWAYS got those jobs after going into the business in person and dropping off my CV to the manager (not some random person) and usually following up with a second in-person visit if I didn't hear anything for some time. People like to see the face behind the CV.

## What wisdom have you gathered and which tip would you like to share with others?

Overall, I think the most important thing is creating opportunities for yourself because you will get so many No's before you get a Yes. Seek out people who are already doing the job you would like to have and see if they'll give you 20 minutes of their time for a coffee and some advice and maybe they can put you on to someone else to speak to and by the end of it you'll have made a whole bunch of new contacts within your desired industry. Also, apply to things online but don't put all your eggs in that basket. Sign up to your school's alumni schemes, speak to your former teachers, your parents' friends, anyone who might know someone who could help you make a start. Put out calls on facebook and join industry facebook groups (I'm a member of several groups on Facebook dedicated to people working in film that constantly put up job opportunities). And of course try to think of different paths that might lead to your destination. There are many different ways to get started in film for example so be open to trying different strategies.

And be patient. In my experience our generation is finding it very difficult to get their first job. My boyfriend recently graduated from his BA and is also going through unpaid internships now while working at the pub. Hopefully he'll be getting a more steady income but I imagine it will take at least a year for him to find his feet. There's that annoying Catch 22 where companies want you to already have experience before you can get a job that would allow you to gain experience. It sucks. But I think that with tenacity and patience and a willingness to do a job you may be overqualified for while living in a crappy house share with several people to save on rent you should be fine! (at least in London)