---
layout: post
title: Stretching her possibilities in Paris
subtitle: Denise
quote: "\"Hi, my name is Denise. I am and 34 years old and living in Paris. I moved here from the Netherlands after my partner got a great opportunity for a postdoc study. After much consideration, we decided to accept, pack all our things and live in the city of love and lights. I decided to take on the challenge and see what Paris had to offer to me. I like to run, practice (group) fitness, knit, sew and other diy projects.\""
background: images/posts/2016-11-01-Denise.jpg
---

I got the chance to interview Denise who moved from the Netherlands to Paris a couple of years ago. We talked about the challenges of job-hunting in the city of lights.

## Could you tell us something about your current position?

Currently I'm working as an assistant for an American fitness company. They provide personal training, nutrition programs and arrange other requested services for high end clients. I'm happy with this job, because it's in my area of expertise, which was difficult to find because I don't speak French. This way, I progress in my work field. Also, it's just a few hours a week, which is also very welcome after my previous, demanding job in a restaurant.

## Did you follow official education for this job or did they hire you because they had faith in your qualities?

The fact that I successfully completed a 4 year education in sports, fitness and well-being was definitely a contributing factor in me getting this job.

## Could you tell us something about how you have found this job?

Actually, this job fell right into my lap. I had resigned from working in at my previous job as a server in an American diner. I left on very good terms; my boss was sad to see me go. One day he called me to ask if I was interested in a job, because he knew someone who was looking to hire. He introduced us to each other, leading to employment.

## When did you have your largest dip during your searching process?

The biggest dip when I first started to look for a job, almost 3 years ago, even before working in the restaurant, was discovering the importance of language and employment. I had underestimated this. Since I work in the fitness industry, I assumed that this was an industry dominated by the English language which I master sufficiently. But, in France, you need to be able to speak French. At one point, it became clear to me, that it was not going to happen, with the level of French I had. I needed almost a week to deal with the disappointment, before redirecting my job search.

## What, according to you, does not work at all when you want to find a position (abroad or in general)?
I think that when you are looking for work, in a foreign country, you have to be willing to be creative and open your search spectrum, especially when you have a beginners level of the language. It might very well be possible that whatever job you have in mind, is not going to be possible for you.
> At the same time, you can take this as a challenge to work somewhere you would have never expected to work. I see this as a challenge and an upside.

## What wisdom have you gathered and which tip would you like to share with others?

What helped me is being able to allow myself time to find a job. Most people want that as quick as possible, I did too, but I had to accept that it was going to take longer. For me, it wasn't an option to job hunt for 40 hours a week. So I spent a certain amount of time on the job hunt, and the rest with discovering the city, joining online groups of people in the same position and practicing my hobbies. That is what I needed, and I advise you to listen to yourself and your needs too.